---
title: Stop waiting for the signs!
date: 2016-11-23
layout: single
description: |
    Stop waiting for signs! The sound from the universe is always there! Just start!
categories:
  - Ideas
  - Philosophy
caty: Ideas
subcaty: Philosophy
tags:
  - Philosophy
  - Intellectual
---
![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/800/1*MqXKPc2jbuB_UQLn_kWoIg.jpeg)

We all have been waiting for signs. A sign from a universe or just an external
entity to kick us into starting something. An alarm, to learn a new thing or to
start a new project or to just move ahead. This waiting often leads to two
possible outcomes. Either we get a sign and start something or we stall so much
and the intention gets expired and idea runs out of frame. So how about
approaching this in a different way?

Two important aspects of any (*Intention-Action-Completion*) process, that we
often overlook are **Clarity** and **Progress**. Lets look at how these aspects
can be well utilized, in order to avoid the trap of waiting for an external
sign.

**Clarity **essentially means a clear understanding of a subject. An important
aspect of clarity, is to have a fundamental perspective of whether the subject
is required or not, in the first case. Steve Jobs used to say *“ Deciding what
not to do is as important as deciding what to do”*. So we should think,
understand and decide clearly, if our idea or intention is worth pursuing. Once
we have decided to purse, the next step would be to gather as much information
as possible. What is it? How to do it? Steps to do it? How others have done it?
What others failed to do it? Our understanding changes, every step as we gain
information. Our idea morphs in better shapes as we learn. Once we have a good
amount of information, the immediate step is to make a simple prototype as the
first level of action. [Brendon Burchard](http://brendon.com/) says

> “Focus goes out of the window, if there is no progress”.

Prototyping shows progress. It shows that we are few steps ahead. It marks a
checkpoint. It even gives more information about the original idea, as we keep
learning. How it looks? How others see it? A prototype lets us, share our idea
to outside world and get feedback. This is the key ingredient of progress. So as
we prototype, learn, get feedback and iterate, we will move ahead.

So instead of having an idea and waiting for some external signs, we can gain
information and start prototyping, to move ahead. Sometimes its just the start,
that is taking so much time. Collect more information. Look at whats already
there. Think about the boundaries. And if everything seems fine, just start.
Prototype and get feedback. Just do it.

[Brendon Burchard](http://brendon.com/) also talks about the Confidence vs
Competence loop. “The more you learn and become competent, the more you get
confident”.

Just start.
